# Data Protection Policy
_Last updated on June 11, 2024._

Information regarding the collection, processing and use of personal data as part of the research project “Simba” (or: “Simba Text Assistant”) at the Alexander von Humboldt Institute for Internet and Society (HIIG), Berlin, Germany, on the study of automating text simplification for German-language texts.

If you use Simba on the [PublicInterest.AI](https://publicinterest.ai) website, HIIG’s [general data protection policy](https://www.hiig.de/en/data-protection-policy/) also applies.
 
## I. Name and address of the controller (the responsible entity)

Alexander von Humboldt Institute for Internet and Society (HIIG)

> Französische Straße 9 <br>
> 10117 Berlin <br>
> Germany
>
>  Phone: +49 (0) 30 2007 60 82 <br>
>  E-Mail: info@hiig.de 

## II. Name and address of the data protection officer

The data protection officer of the controller is:

Alexander von Humboldt Institut für Internet und Gesellschaft gGmbH (HIIG)

> Dr. Jörg Pohle <br>
> Französische Straße 9 <br>
> 10117 Berlin <br>
> Germany
>
> Phone: +49 (0)30 2007 6082 <br>
> E-Mail: dsb@hiig.de (PGP: 0x35D2CAA8B646D3AB) <br>

## III. Information on the processing of personal data 

### 1. Description and scope of data processing

We only process personal data of users if it is necessary to provide functionality and/or conduct research.
Every time you use Simba, our system automatically collects data and information from the user’s computer.

If you use Simba on the PublicInterest.AI website, the following data is collected:

- the IP address of the user’s computer
- date and time of request
- the input entered into the website textbox and the output generated by our models
- feedback from the user, if any

If you use Simba as a browser extension, the following data is collected:

- the IP address of the user’s computer
- date and time of request
- the URL the plug-in has been used on (excluding parameters)
- the text of the webpage the browser extension is run on and the output generated by our models
- feedback from the user, if any

Simba uses a number of third party data processes, including the [Google Cloud Platform](https://cloud.google.com/terms/cloud-privacy-notice), [RunPod](https://www.runpod.io/legal/privacy-policy), [TogetherAI](https://www.together.ai/privacy), and [DigitalOcean](https://www.digitalocean.com/legal/privacy-policy), and is subject to their privacy / data protection policies.  

### 2. Legal basis for data processing

The legal basis for the processing of personal data is Article 6(1)(f) of the EU Data Protection Regulation (GDPR), our legitimate interest is the conduct of scientific research, to present the project to the public and to publish the project results.

### 3. Purpose of data processing

The temporary storage of the IP address by our system is necessary to enable the website to be delivered to the user's computer. This information is also necessary to react to potential misuse of the service and ensure security. For this reason the IP address of the user must be kept for the duration of the session.

The input text, feedback and information about the websites, allow us to evaluate our models and improve them.

The input text, model output, and feedback, may be published as part of NLP datasets (without any link to the IP address) to allow for improving simplification models and for NLP research purposes.

We do not use the data for marketing purposes.

### 4. Data retention period, possibility to object and erase

The data will be deleted as soon as they are no longer necessary to achieve the purpose for which they were collected.

After the end of the session, IP addresses are anonymized by removing the last half. The texts used for model input, output, and feedback, may be kept indefinitely and published as part of NLP datasets (without any link to the IP address). This information is useful to improve simplification models and for NLP research purposes.

If you have accidentally entered personal or confidential data on our service that you would like to be removed, you can send us a request (via email to: simba@hiig.de) with a long unique substring that points to the particular text you would like to be removed. Apart from this case, due to the nature of the research project and pursuant to Art. 21 para. 1 sentence 2 1st alternative GDPR there is no possibility to object on the part of the user.

## IV. Rights of the data subjects

If personal data relating to you are processed, you are a data subject according to the GDPR, and you have certain rights in general. You can find these in the HIIG data protection policy. Since we do not store identifiers that would allow us to trace the data to individual persons, certain data subject rights might not be possible to exercise.

You have the right to request information from us as to whether we process the personal data relating to you. In the case that we are, this also includes information about the data relating to you, as well as the information specified in Art. 15 para. 1 lit. a to h GDPR.

You have the right to request that we correct any information you believe is inaccurate. You also have the right to request we complete the information you believe is incomplete.

You have the right to request us to restrict the processing of data relating to you if this request is covered by one of the reasons in Art. 18 para. 1 lit. a to d GDPR.

You have the right to request us to delete the data relating to you, provided that this request is covered by one of the reasons in Art. 17 para. 1 lit. a to f GDPR and none of the exceptions in Art. 17 para. 3 lit. a to e GDPR applies.

You have the right to ask us to inform you of the parties to whom we have transmitted data relating to you, unless this involves disproportionate effort on our part.

You have the right to object to the processing insofar as the legal basis of the processing is Art. 6 para. 1 lit. e or f GDPR, provided that none of the exceptions in Art. 21 para. 1 sentence 2 GDPR applies.

You have the right to lodge a complaint with any supervisory authority if you believe that the processing of data relating to you is illegal.

The data protection supervisory authority responsible for the HIIG is:

> [Berliner Beauftragte für Datenschutz und Informationsfreiheit](https://www.datenschutz-berlin.de/) <br>
>
> Alt-Moabit 59-61 <br>
> 10555 Berlin <br>
> Germany
>
> Phone: +49 (0)30 13889-0 <br>
> Fax: +49 (0)30 2155050 <br>
> E-Mail: mailbox@datenschutz-berlin.de 

